Hi, this is Scott. I
really appreciate our sponsors because
they make the show possible.
Today's show is sponsored by
developer express, become a UI
superhero with dev express controls
and libraries. Deliver elegant.net solutions
that address customer needs today
by leveraging your existing knowledge,
you can build next generation
touch enabled solutions for tomorrow,
you can download your free
30 day trial@dxdothanselminutes.com. That's dx.hanselminutes.com.
One more thing. Let me
tell you about a new
sponsor gun. If you're wanting
to detect and diagnose errors
and crashes in your software,
even find problems that you
didn't know existed to improve
your software and Reagan might
be perfect for you. You
had a few lines of
code your application, and in
minutes, you'll get real time
error reports with all the
information that you need to
fix bugs fast, you can
even hook it up to
your team chat, bug tracking
development, workflow tools, Reagan covers
all major web and mobile
programming languages, including.net, the full
Xamarin stack JavaScript, and many
more. Go check out Reagan
today@reagan.io. I use this myself
on my little startup and
I really, really recommend this
product. It is a great,
great product. Check it out.
Ray gun@reagan.io.  from hanselminutes.com.
It's Hanselman. It's a weekly
discussion with web developer and
technologist Scott Hanselman. This is
Lawrence Ryan announcing show number four
76. In this episode, Scott
talks with Cassandra perch about
getting started making node bots
and wearables. Hi, this is
Scott Hanselman. This is another
episode of Hansel minutes and
on the phone we've got
Cassandra perse, the node botanist
and educator and mad scientist
at Boku and an expert
on node bots. And I'm
very, very excited to be
talking to you today. Thanks.
So people actually, you just
had a book come out
with a whole group of
people called make JavaScript robotics.
This is a brand new
book coming out this week.
Yeah, it just came out
last Friday. I'm really excited
about it. It's a really,
it's really a compendium of
a bunch of different projects
from a really great cast
of people. And yeah, it's
really great. So is each
chapter and individual pro Yes.
Each chapter goes into a
different platform of node bot
or a different scale. And
so you can build, I
think something like 12 different
projects with eight or nine
different types of a node
bot. Is this something that's
like advanced that like maybe
only a programmer would look
at or could I get
this with my kids? And
we could just, is this
accessible? I think there's a
couple projects that would be
good for, but most of
the projects are more aimed
at folks who are already
programming and already building things.
Okay. So some familiarity with
programming and, you know, be
able to turn a computer
on why is it that
you are so excited about
JavaScript as it relates to
robots because people have been
programming robots forever, but why
does JavaScript and node make
robots so much more accessible?
Oh, that's a great question.
A lot of it has
to do with the fact
that a lot of, a
lot of people see C
and C plus plus as
an accessible, especially nowadays where
folks are being educated, not
in C or in a
low level language, but they're
being educated and things like
Python or Java where they,
they have a good grasp
of abstract languages as soon
as they get out of
school. And they feel that
those lower level languages are
inaccessible. I think JavaScript in
particular is a very easy
to adapt to language. And
so it's great that we
can write robotics without having
to get into the deep
code without getting into these
assembly languages that can seem
cryptic to a lot of
people. It seems like for
me, when I was learning
see years ago, it was
always the memory management that
was like, why am I
dealing with that? I thought
we were moving a robot
from left to right. And
now you're telling me I
have to Malik. Oh yeah,
definitely. A memory management is
a huge issue that is
taken care of when you
write with a higher level
language like Java. And is
there an aspect of the
events concepts around like how
node works like that an
event shows up and event
driven programming? Does that change
things? Yeah, Definitely. It, it
moves a lot of trying
to wrap your head around
interrupts. It can be tricky,
but wrapping your head around
an event system, especially if
you're already a web developer
and you deal with events
all day. Moving into that
with robotics is definitely Chris
Williams does a couple of
really great talks and has
a couple of really great
blog posts about why the
vented system and JavaScript adapts
so well to rebel. What
do I do I need,
do I need to go
and buy like a robot
kit or can I simulate
a robot? It gets started
like, what's the hello world
for a node bot? Yeah.
Some folks are working on
simulations with robotics, but right
now the best way to
go about it is to
get an Arduino UNO or
some form of Arduino board.
Luckily these can be very
cost efficient. You can get
a scene smart, which is
a, an Arduino compatible board
for about $15 on Amazon.
And you can get a
pack of components for about
five bucks that will allow
you to do the basics.
The hello world program would
be kind of the, the
blinking of the onboard led.
So there's one led on
Ardwino who knows that users
can control. And so the
Johnny five, hello world sketches,
basically you plug in your
board and you run a
sketch that blinks, that led
to tell you that the
board is working and the
computers is communicating with it
properly. When I did some
basic Arduino myself, that language
and that, that word that
you just used sketch, that's
kind of a C language.
Can you explain the relationship
between our Dean or do
we know the sketches? And
then when does the higher
level JavaScript come in? That's
a great question. So what
a sketch is in the
terms of the age, we
know world is a piece
of a C, C plus
plus, or a lower level,
or even processing that you
can load directly onto the
Arduino board that runs where
JavaScript comes in as you
load what's, it's a very
special sketch gets kind of
out an OSTP of sorts
called fermata. And what for
Mada does is it allows
the board to run through
communications on the serial port,
which in our case is
USB ports from our computer.
What Johnny five does, is
it uses for Mada and
you write a Johnny five.
I called them sketches. A
lot of people just call
them programs. But what it
does is it communicates with
the fermata on the board
and send special instructions to
cue, to basically translate your
JavaScript commands into commands that
are run on the board.
I see. So it makes
the Arduino a, a terminal
of sorts, a receiver. So
rather than becoming the brain,
it becomes the listener. Yes.
The Ardwino essentially becomes a
thin client that just waits
for instructions from the serial
port. Now, is that a,
is that a good thing?
Like I could see someone
saying, well, wait, I thought
that the robot was going
to be smart, but now
the robot is an extension
of a computer that I
have to have somewhere else.
It definitely can be seen
as a limitation that you
have to tether your arch.
We know to a computer
that's running node, but with
new platforms that are coming
out by the day, there
are actually now platforms that
run a node on it,
much like the BeagleBone black
or the raspberry PI that
run Linux and note on
the board, you can actually
run Johnny five with those
and you don't have to
tether it. It's just running
directly on the BeagleBone or
on the raspberry PI. And
then there are microcontrollers that
now run JavaScript, natively, such
as the Tesla, which has
been out for awhile and
the SQL, the TESL two
is about to come out.
I'm really excited about that.
And the Esperino, which runs,
it's a very modified version
of, of what looked like
a client side JavaScript, but
it's definitely still an application
that you could use if
you wanted to break the
tether up. And the TESL
too, that you said you're
excited about that comes out
later this year, and it's
only going to be $35.
Yes. That's definitely one of
the biggest things I'm excited
about. They've managed to make
it more powerful, more useful
and cheaper all at the
same time. Oh, and smaller.
I'm really excited about that.
And they're working, they're working
really hard to make it
a great price. Yeah. It
looks like it's got 64
megs of Ram. It's got
a nice little processor. It's
going to do everything that
we needed. Two USB ports.
And the part that I
think is the most interesting,
at least in the context
of robots is it's going
to have wifi on the
thing, which is, I think
important. Yeah. The Tesla one
actually has a wifi chip
as well. A few other
platforms like spark. However, the
big update is going to
be, they're moving from a
Texas instruments, wifi chip, which
has been riddled with issues
into, I believe, sparks moving
to the Broadcom chip. And
I'm not sure which one
the tussle is moving to,
but both of these chips
are much more stable and
much more easier to interact
with the, the, I believe
it's called the CC 3000
has just been a huge
issue in terms of reliability.
And I'm really glad to
see that we have options
now. Yeah. I'm not as
familiar with the details as
you are, but I know
that I recognize the names
like Broadcom and I know
that on my laptop. So
those have been very reliable.
Yeah. Broadcom. The problem was
if I believe, if I
remember correctly was, had to
do with open sourcing and
drivers, and I believe rod
comes to me and some
really good steps into allowing
drivers to be written by
other parties. And I believe
that was really the breakthrough
that allowed that technology to
move on to. So as
a newbie, when I get
into this, how much of
these kinds of details do
I need to know about
and how much time can
I spend up in the
node high level, I'm moving
a robot around versus the
man I'm getting flaky wifi,
or I need to go
and get new drivers for
this or that. Yeah. Luckily
my answer now is much
better than it was a
few months, Really, even as,
even as recently as a
few months ago. Yes. Even
the, that there actually was
a firmware update to the
chips that I mentioned that
were a little bit unreliable
that has made them much
more reliable. The only problems
we really have now are
when we do hackathons and
we have 30 chips in
the same room, there's a
little bit of an issue,
but just for the average
user that buys a board,
brings it home and runs
it. It's gotten a lot
more stable. Luckily, a software
update managed to repair a
lot of the issues as
long as you're just using
one border. So I've heard
you say spark and they
have the core and photon
electron, I've heard you say
TESL raspberry PI, which I'm
familiar with. And also our
Duino, that's quite a diverse
group of different systems. All
of them are running the
same libraries and using node
in the same kind of
way. That's the best part
you have options. So my,
one of my favorites is
definitely Johnny five, because you
can run the same code
on all of the aforementioned
platforms. And even more, the,
the Johnny five.io website just
came out a few weeks
ago and it shows all
the platforms that it's available
for. And you can use
Johnny five with all these
platforms, with the BeagleBone or
the raspberry PI, you can
just run node natively and
there's libraries to control the
GPIO pins. The Tesla has
its own library set up,
but yeah, that's the best
part is you with Johnny
five, you can get started
immediately without knowing a lot
of the details of the
board that you're using, especially
because the documentation is just
so fantastic. Especially with the
new website, they made it
look a lot prettier. So
yeah. Yeah. I'm going to
put links to all of
this in the show notes,
but Johnny five, is it
J O H N N
y-five.io. And I think it's
so funny that the people,
particularly people like my kids
that are going to start
doing this kind of stuff
will have no idea who
Johnny five was or why
he was one of our
great heroes. I actually hadn't
seen The movie until I
started working with the library.
I then saw the movie
Didn't that immediately make you
want to build a Johnny
five? Like, that's the thing
about Johnny class? Like, I
must have one and he's
like our two, you know,
we need one in the
garage. Yeah. Some of the
work that's been done with
hexapod is by Rick Waldron
and Donovan buck has been
amazing. And I would definitely
take a look at Donovan,
did a talk for, it
was either empire JS or
an empire note on his
hexapod and it walks and
dances and responds to commands.
And it's, it's amazing what
you can do with node
routes. At this point, I
specialize in wearables and I
now have two outfits that
are going to be ready
for JS comp that are
all powered by JavaScript. And
so I'll be all lit
up and, and sensor fired
and internet of things as
my sibling put it that.
Yeah, it's going to be
interesting. That's fantastic. And hexapod
for people who may not
be familiar, are there spider
robots, basically robots that have
six legs. So you said
that you're specializing in wearables
and you mentioned sensors. How
many kinds of sensors can
one bring in to their,
their node bot? Oh wow.
That's growing by the day,
Johnny five alone supports I
think 25 to 20, 25
to 35 different types of
sensors. And we just cracked,
I squared C support on
a bunch of platforms which
opens up a whole new.
So what does that mean?
What does I square C
I squared C is a
different type of, of a
protocol. So basically when you
have a standard sensor, you
plug it into one analog
input and you basically determine
the voltage to be the
sensor reading with I squared
C each device has an
address and you can plug
multiple devices into the same
three pins. And so you
say, I want to read
this from this address in
order to say, to, in
order to differentiate between all
of the devices that are
on the same pins. So
not only can you fit
as many sensors as you
can power on to just
a couple of pins, but
you can also a lot
of devices now come in.
I squared C that have
so much more capability on
one little board. For instance,
accelerometers really start to shine
in, I squared C because
you've got all these different
readings. And instead of using
one pin for each reading,
you just use ice squared.
See if you just got
the same three pins and
you get the data in
a nice little bite packet.
Okay. So there's a little
like my brain is exploding,
cause there's so much good
information there. Let me see
if I can paraphrase some
of that. And you tell
me if I got it
right. So I know with
my Arduino, I can stack
the shields, right? I can
have my Arduino and I
can put stuff on top
of them, but I do
have to, at least before
you just told me this,
I have to be aware
of what's on what pin
you're telling me that I
squared C and people can
search for that using the
letter I, the number two
and the literacy, I to
see ice cream, see that
this is a way of
kind of multiplexing things across
one pin. It lets you
not worry so much about
that. In fact, a lot
of shields use ice square
at sea. So that's how
you're able to stack those
shields is each shield has
its own address. And so
it's using your, I squared
C pins and it has
its own address so that
you can use as many
shields as you can. So
should I go through my
shields that I've got in
my, in my closet here
and maybe kind of put
the ones that support ice
squared see aside and say,
all right, those are the
best of what I'm going
to be doing. And then
maybe the other ones are
older shields that I might
not need. Maybe a, what
I would definitely do is
check Johnny five support. If
you're looking for doing with
node, I would definitely check
the Johnny five website and
see what shields are already
supported. And then out of
that, if outside of that,
if it's not supported yet,
I would definitely take a
look at implementing it. I
squared C once you get
the addresses and figure out
what's going on, you can
implement, I squared C in
Johnny five fairly easily, and
you can end up putting
a pull request back to
the repo. Oh, there you
go. So I'm up here
on the Johnny five website,
which is, you know, in
seriously, you know, we've all
seen a lot of websites.
You know, everyone looks at
a website and like, Oh,
this is bootstrap. This is
a gorgeous website. I actually
did a little work on
it. I'm look, I just
clicked on platform support. And
there's this grid of all
the different Arduinos that it
supports. And of course being
the jaded old web person
than I am, I'm like,
Oh, here's some clip art.
I click on them. And
I go to this fantastic
page called platform support. And
it lists out dozens and
dozens and dozens of different
devices with a clear yes
and no about what that
device supports. It is just
fantastic. Yeah. That a lot
of that work was Rick
Waldron. So that's one of
the things I have to
say about my employer is
this was a project that,
that my employer actually gave
us time to do. They're
a huge supporter, but who
a huge supporter of the
node box movement. Rick works
there. I worked there and
Rick and Matt Marcie, and
I all worked on that
website to, to make it
shine and make it look
great because previously we were
using GitHub wikis and that
was getting a little unmaintainable.
So we moved to a
full website and yeah, our
designer did a great job
of, of, of tying things
together. And I really like
how the website. Yeah. I
mean, it's not just that
it's pretty, but the idea
that it's, it's got the
answers I want. I mean,
it's like, I have a
device it's sitting right next
to me. I don't know
what it's come kind of
older Arduino. I go on,
I go up here. I
like, Oh, there it is.
RDO mega. And suddenly I
feel like I can do
this now. Like, you know,
I may have a node
bot running by the end
of the day. Yeah. That's
the best part about Johnny
five? The community cares so
much about documentation and they
see, I remember one time
we were, we were on
IRC and someone said, well,
I haven't really contributed to
Johnny five. I just put
docs in. And Rick immediately
jumped in and said, no,
that means you've contributed to
Johnny five because without our
documentation, we would be just,
we would be useless because
everybody would look at the
library and say, well, I
can't use that. And our
documentation is really what makes
us shine as a usable
library. You can, you can
see that in the documentation
that, Oh, I can do
this. This is just a
few lines of JavaScript. And
it supports the boards. What
is this word, Fritz saying
that I hear everywhere. Ah,
yeah. So all of the
diagrams that you see in
the documentation that show you
how to wire things together
are done in Fritz saying,
it's a very great open
source project. That's kind of
CAD software, but it has
all of your components and
all your boards already done
in a, in a, in
a, I call it clipart,
but it looks so much
nicer than clip art kind
of style. They take a
lot of pride in their
graphics. And so it's easy
to diagram out what you've
made in Fritz sing, save
it as a PNG and
upload it to a website.
And that's part of what
makes our documentation shine is
the fact that fritzing works
so well is we can
just kinda quickly write up
what we're doing and throw
it up on the website.
And it makes the doc
so much easier to make
that we don't have to
draw our own boards out.
I want to take a
moment to thank our sponsors,
sync, fusion, sync fusions, mobile
web, and desktop controls are
trusted worldwide, but did you
know that they also provide
educational resources? The succinctly series
of free eBooks has great
content on popular technologies and
100 completely ad free pages.
These books are written by
industry experts and topics range
from Cassandra to no JS
to windows 8.1. They are
available for Kindle apps and
in PDF format and new
eBooks are released each month.
So browse their library@syncfusion.com to
download your free ebook today.
One of the things that
I think turns people off
when they start getting into
electronics are using the standard
electronics diagrams, you know, and
the triangles and stuff. I
mean, I remember doing this
in college, but honestly, I'm
just going to be Googling
for work. And what does
that look? Is that a
resistor and the fritzing diagrams
and the cleanliness of it,
it kind of goes, I'm
sure. I'm sure that there
are purists in E that
are like not okay with
that, but it's so much
more accessible to myself and
for my kids to be
able to put something together
with these. Yeah. I, I
find the, the purists to
be a bit arbitrary. Like
if you're building, if you're
working in any and you're
building a chip, I can
definitely understand the use of
the, the classical style. But
I think for, for applications
such as hobby hobbyist, would
you like, like with Johnny
five, I think fixing a
really makes it a lot
more accessible and a lot
easier to read. Yeah. It's
so it's so important. I
work with my 13 year
old nephew recently to hook
up an led to a
raspberry PI. I think we
spent probably four hours trying
to do this, just to
get the concepts across to
him. But when you go
to Johnny five and you
click on led blink, it's
like, Oh, there's a picture
of an led shoved right
into the Arduino direction. It
didn't have to go in
and get a breadboard. I
didn't have to get a
resistor. You got me to
that led moment fast. Oh
yeah. That's definitely something we
also take pride in is
I believe I can attribute
it to Rick's teaching style,
which is the faster, you
can get someone to you
faster. You can show someone
something, the more likely it
is. They'll want to know
how the code runs. So
when, when he does a,
he says, okay, so basically
just, just follow along and
then I'll explain what goes
on in a minute, because
if you can get a
student to blink an led,
they'll want to know how
that code works. And I
think that theory really applies.
I've started adapting it to
my own kind of teaching
style. Now, when I teach
a node just playing node,
no, no robots. I actually
will build a robot and
give it a rest API.
And then I will tell,
I will have students build
a web app that interfaces
with our robot. And you'd
be amazed how excited people
get when they can make
a light, a robot turn
green or purple or blue
just from their web browser.
And they get so much,
so much excitement out of
building a web app that
can do that. And then
of course, there's always some
interest at the end of
the class of, Oh, well,
how do I build that
robot? Yeah. I think that's
actually why we started this
conversation on Twitter was you
were talking to someone about
that led moment and my,
my partner saran and I,
when we did our marches
for makers, we just came
up with that idea too.
Cause it's one of those
ideas. It's like, yeah, I
remember the first time I
was able to like push
a button and have a
light go on because it's
like, it feels like it
went from the world through
your brain and then back
into the world. And that
loop when you close that
loop, it's like suddenly you're
powerful. Yeah. I actually, a
lot of people ask me
how long I've been doing
node bots. And they're very
surprised to hear I've only
been doing robotics at all
for about a year, I
guess, 12 to two years
now. Yeah. It's only been
two years. What happened was
I was at JS comp
2013 and Raquel and Rick
showed me how to build
a node bot. And I'd
always thought that hardware was
just beyond me. And it
was just something I, I
couldn't do. And I had
built an RGB led that
responded to a web page
in about eight hours of
work. I didn't leave the
note box room for eight
hours. I was so excited
to build this and the
fact that I went from
no hardware experience to building
that, it just inspired me
to, to build. I left
knowing I wanted to build
a light up dress. And
at JS comp 2014, I
had that I had a
dress that had LEDs on
it and they reacted to
an accelerometer. And I've built
that into, I, I know
have a skirt that does
that as well. I have
a tuxedo jacket that reacts
to the weather. I have,
I have like eight or
nine wearables projects just sitting
around within two feet of
me in my lab right
now. And all because of
that led moment, all because
it was, it was just
so easy to get into
robotics and, and see the
documentation and think, Oh, I
can do this. How much
let's get down to the
soldering though. Like, that's the
thing that slows people down.
How much soldering am I
have to do? How much,
how many multimedia am I
going to need to get?
When will I hit the
multimedia moment where things suddenly
slow down For me, I
got my first multimedia for
Christmas 2014. My dad is
an electrical engineer. And he
said, well, you've been working
with robots enough so that
you're, you're gonna start needing
a multimeter soon. And sure
enough, he was right. They're
really great tools for detecting
shorts. And when you work
with wearables, you work with
a threaded wire, that kind
of phrase. And so you
can get shorts pretty easily,
especially with conductive thread as
well. So he was right.
I was using that multimedia
within a couple of weeks
to detect shorts and, and
find problems. But on the
other hand, if you want
to build something stationary, or
if you want to build
something that, that doesn't need
to be worn, you can
actually get away without soldering
for quite a while. There
are quite a few projects
built on breadboards that just
kinda either sit on window
cells or they're, they're not,
they're just stationary. So you
can get away for quite
a while without soldering and
multimedia use. But honestly, it's,
it's funny. How, how, how,
how much of a barrier
has been put around soldering
and around multimeters when really
all you need is the
right documentation. When I found
a website on how to
use my multimeter, it made
the manual, I threw the
manual out the window and
just results into the website.
Cause it was just so
much easier to read. I
think there's such a cryptic
barrier around all these electronics
that if we can just
break that down and document
what we're doing, we can
invite so many people into
this hobby that think they
can't do it. I think
you're absolutely right. You know,
and I I've used my
multimeter. I've had the same
one. My dad gave me
20 years ago. But even
now, because I really don't
fully understand how to use
it. I just turn the
knob until I see a
number that doesn't look insane.
I really need to put
a little more thought into
that. Yeah. I think it's
not just, people need to
put more thought into how
they use tools. I, like
I said, I think, I
think it's just as much
up to the people who
do know how to use
those tools to turn around
and give back to the
community. I always say, when
I give a talk about
robotics, the best thing you
can do is document not
just your successes, but always
document what went wrong and
why. And because that documentation
is what's going to bring
new people into the, into
the robotics hobbyist area is
that documentation is going to
show them that, Oh, we're
human. All of us have
blown and led up. All
of us have, have most
of us have seen the
blue smoke monster and we're
okay. And life goes on
and you can do this
and you can build these
things and you're not going
to break anything and you're
not going to hurt yourself.
So A good reminder that
this is low voltage. So
hopefully you won't burn your
house down. Yeah. Unless you're
working with relay is the
likelihood of you hurting yourself
or anyone else's is remarkably
small. There's another site that
Johnny five links to that
says node dash ARDX. And
that has a lot of
really great information. That's a
little more kind of low
level, a little more detailed.
And it has diagrams as
well as traditional electronics diagrams.
What is that site? That
site is a walkthrough. And
so the ARDX is a
kit that comes with an
Arduino and a set of,
of components. And the writer
of that site, what she
did was she said, okay,
I want to walk through
the same tutorials that come
with that kit, but in
node. And so that's what
she did is she wrote
that entire site, that through
it walks through the same
manual that comes through that
manual, or it comes with
that kit in C and
she goes through it with
node. So definitely a great
place to get started. If
you're interested in learning about
node boxes to just get
the kit and follow through
with node, our ARDX, it's
a great website. And she
she's put a lot of
thought into the documentation and
a lot of work. Yeah.
Yeah. That's Anna Gerber and
it looks like a really
amazing site. And the kid
is really extraordinary too, because
to make things accessible, they
printed out the wiring as
pictures. So it's like a
top down version of the
breadboard and it's like, yeah,
put the wire here, kids,
which for me as an
adult makes me very, very
happy. Yeah. I'm a, I'm
a visual person. And so
the photos and Fritz and
diagrams are usually what I
go to because I'm terrible
at memorizing symbols and things.
So I definitely rely on
the pick or the pictures
of what's going on the
seat to when I'm replicating.
Okay. So we're, we're, we're
blinking lights, we're responding to,
to, to sensors, but you
talked a little bit about
relays. Can you talk about
relays and motors and how
do I actually make this
thing roll across the floor?
Yeah. So relays would have
to do with the electronics
that are outside the realm
of Arduino. So if you
want to light up a
lamp with a text message,
you would, you would wire
up the lamp to a
relay. It allows you to
use higher voltage technology with
the Arduino, whereas motors and
servos. They, they, they tend
to use a little bit
higher voltage, but you can
start with five volt motors
and servos. What I do
if I was interested in
movement is definitely, again, back
to Johnny five Donovan buck
has done some amazing things
with what's called the animation
library, and it allows you
to time robotics movements, which
was something that was previously
not something we were capable
of doing with node bots.
And that's how the hexapod
work is. It's, it's, it's
amazing how much balance it
requires for a hexapod to
walk. And so without the
animation library, those hexapod, wouldn't
be able to walk because
we wouldn't be able to
time the leg movements properly.
So if you're interested in
movement and robotics, I would
definitely take a look at
Donovan Buck's work in general
and definitely take a look
at the animation library and
Johnny. Okay. And I'm seeing,
I've got this kit that
I, you know, RadioShack went
out of business. So I
ran over there and bought
all the, anything that looked
interesting. It's ridiculous. But I
have like this Arduino motor
thing, I've got DC motors,
I've got servo motors and
I've got stepper motors. I
don't know which one I'm
supposed to use. I believe
Donovan mostly uses regular servers
for the hexapod stepper. Motors
are very accurate and they're
mostly used in three D
printing as far as I've
seen. And regular DC motors
are for applications that don't
require a lot of accuracy
because they mostly just have
on and off. And they
don't measure like how far
something is moved. So you
can't tell a regular DC
motor move, 20 degrees, whereas
a stepper motor you can,
and a servo error, rotational
servo, which goes all the
way around as opposed to
just zero to one 80,
like a regular survey can
do, you can say, I
want a certain number of
degrees. Okay. So then that
makes me think that I
would I'd use a DC
motor, like zoom. That would
be my go forward. And
I could use a servo
if I were going to
hook up like an Xbox
controller and steer the thing
with accuracy. And then maybe
if I had an eyeball
on top, I might use
a step promoter if I
needed real accuracy to move
the eyeball. That sounds about
right. Oh, okay. See, this
makes me happy. Cause I
feel like I'm understanding what's
going on. The, the other
thing is the sensors there's
proximity sensors, there are sonar
and things like that. How
much, how often do you
put intelligence into these things
versus remote control? You know
what I mean? Like, are
they responding to sensors and
thinking about stuff they're on
their own or are these
kind of RC cars? It
depends on who's, who's controlling
it. I've mostly built things
that, you know, I, I,
I don't build movable robots
too much, but when I
do, they're not usually very
smart. Whereas Rick and Donovan
have done a lot of
work with Donovan, especially with
the leap motion. He has
a thing where he can
put his hands up of
the wheat motion and the
hexapod will sit back and
take the front legs and
mimic his hand movements with
the front legs. It's amazing.
It's I was completely just
flabbergasted when I saw it.
You can definitely make the
robots as smart as, as,
as smart as you want,
which is kind of a
terrifying statement. When you think
about it. Oh, smart. How
smart are your wearables? Because
I think it's important for
people to know that robots
don't necessarily have to have
motors your, your wearables in
your, your dress is a
robot of sorts. If it's
interacting with the environment, does
it know about what's going
on around it? It does
my vest and my shoes.
No. When someone stars or
follows me on Twitter. Yeah.
Yeah. It's, it's very funny
when I'm at a conference
and I have to tell
somebody, hold on, I have
to charge my shoes real
quick, but yeah, I have
Twitter enabled clothes. I have
weather enabled clothes. Most of
mine get their information from
the internet, but I do
have some that still rely
on sensors. I just got
a, a pitch roll in
y'all sensor and then I'm
putting into a pendant that
will change the way my
clothing looks based on the
rotation of the pendant. How
are you getting through airport
security with these? I'm not
wearing them, put them in
my check luggage. That's awesome.
I somehow, I just immediately
had an image of you
taking off in an airplane
and suddenly you're starting to
change color as the airplane
starts to take off at
an angle. I try not
to wear them on the
plane because I get the
feeling I would cause, cause
a bit of a ruckus
That would be problematic. Oh
right. Oh my goodness. Okay.
So we've got Johnny five.io.
We've got the Johnny five
library, which is kind of
like the hub of it.
All right. This is where
we, we start with Johnny
five. Are there any, is
there anything else or is
Johnny five? The brain there's
no other brain. We would
want to think about it.
There are other libraries out
there. Johnny five is definitely
the farthest along and has
the best community, but there's
some community around the, the
TESL has its own library
on the Esperino, which has
its own way of doing
things. But I would definitely
start with Johnny five because
it tends to lead to
those libraries and those platforms.
So I would definitely start.
Yeah. Can I use Johnny
five with a TESL? Not
yet stopped by that. I
like that. Okay. Not yet.
And then I noticed that
when I went over to,
I found my way from
Johnny five over to IO
plugins. This is where things
start getting interesting. Anytime someone
finds an object that they
want to talk to, they
just build a plugin for
this thing. Yes, exactly. And
that's how Johnny five a
is one of those right.
Ones work anywhere sort of
libraries is basically you installed
IO plugin for the platform
you want to use and
maybe change some pin numbers.
And all of a sudden
your code that you wrote
for an earth, we know
who know can run on
a BeagleBone black or Latino
one or all sorts of
different. And that right there,
you, you threw that out.
Like it was a small
thing and change some pin
numbers. It really is small.
So basically when you write
an output it's to a
pin number and an Arduino
UNO, it's usually a digit.
However, in some other platforms
it's like a BeagleBone black,
for instance, the pin number
would be P, which is
the column and then a
number which is eight or
nine underscore. And then the
number on that column. So,
I mean, you have to
look up the pin differences,
but everything else, the API
is the, the event system.
It does transfer from platform
to platform. So it's truly
a minimal thing. Now you've
said Arduino, UNO and many
times, and that happens to
be the first one at
the top of platform support.
I think I've got an
old one with an Italian
name from a couple years
ago. W is the UNO,
the one that people really
should start with is that
the you've you've mentioned it
so many times. It's the
first one on the list
is that preferred? It's the
easiest one to get? I
think the, the Johnny five
community is so welcoming and
the, and the code works
well enough on each platform
that there is no real
one. You should start here
platform. It's just, the UNO
is so easy to get.
And so cheap really. That's
usually why it's at the
forefront of the Johnny five.
And also it was one
of the, it was the
first board that it was
tested with. So I think,
I think it's got a
special places. Our hearts is
the first note bought And
it does not have that
one does not have wifi.
Correct. It does not. You
can get shields for it,
but I don't think Johnny
five has compatibility for those
shields. If you're looking for
a wifi out of the
box, I would look at
spark or TESL, but Tesla
doesn't work with Johnny five
yet, but so I would
look at spark or electric
amp, which has a really
nice little SD card shaped
microcontroller. Hmm. And are you
usually just using a really
long USB cable for these
kinds of things? I usually
use wifi enabled rope node
bots. So I don't, but
Rick, What do I put
on top of an Ardwino
UNO then to get that
wifi, wifi shield, Or you
could use Bluetooth. If you
have Bluetooth breakout board, you
can connect to your laptop
with a Bluetooth serial connection.
But yeah, if you're interested
in doing basically what's called
a wireless node bot, I
would start with the electric
imp, but yeah. Donovan and
Rick can tell you where
to get really, really long
cables for the, you know,
because they're, hexapod have really,
really long tethers on them.
Oh, okay. Well maybe you'll
make an introduction and we'll
do part two. Yeah. Well
this has been so much
fun. Thank you so much.
This has been Cassandra perch
talking to me about node
bots and I'm ready to
start building something. This has
been another episode of Hansel
minutes and we'll see you
again next week.